apps/docs/content/getting-started/index.mdx, before:

# Introduction

Mind Palace is a deterministic context system for codebases. Unlike RAG or embedding-based approaches, Mind Palace provides **schema-validated, verifiable context** that both humans and AI agents can trust.

## Installation

### macOS / Linux

```sh
# Download the latest release
curl -L https://github.com/koksalmehmet/mind-palace/releases/latest/download/palace-darwin-arm64 -o palace

# Make it executable
chmod +x palace

# Move to your PATH
sudo mv palace /usr/local/bin/
```

### Windows

Download from the [releases page](https://github.com/koksalmehmet/mind-palace/releases) and add to your PATH.

### Verify Installation

```sh
palace version
```

## Quick Start

### 1. Initialize Your Project

```sh
cd your-project
palace init
```

This creates the `.palace/` directory with:
- `palace.jsonc` - Project configuration
- `rooms/` - Room definitions
- `playbooks/` - Workflow templates

### 2. Auto-Detect Project Type

```sh
palace detect
```

Mind Palace analyzes your codebase and generates a project profile.

### 3. Build the Index

```sh
palace scan
```

This creates a SQLite database with full-text search (FTS5) containing:
- File metadata and hashes
- Symbols (functions, types, classes)
- Call relationships

### 4. Query Your Codebase

```sh
palace ask "where is authentication handled"
```

Results are ranked using BM25 with entry-point boosting.

## What's Next

- [Concepts](/getting-started/concepts) - Learn the core terminology
- [Workflows](/getting-started/workflows) - Day-to-day usage patterns
- [CLI Reference](/reference/cli) - All available commands

Commit message:

feat: add Phase 3 features - postmortems, context preview, decision timeline, scope explorer
### New Features

- **Postmortems**: Failure memory system for tracking and learning from failures
  - Create postmortems with structured analysis (what happened, root cause, lessons)
  - Severity levels and status tracking (open, resolved, recurring)
  - Convert postmortem lessons to learnings automatically
  - MCP tools: store_postmortem, get_postmortems, resolve_postmortem

- **AI Context Preview**: Preview what context AI agents will receive
  - Preview auto-injection context for any file path
  - Token budget visualization with breakdown
  - Toggle inclusion of learnings, decisions, and failures

- **Decision Timeline**: Visual decision evolution tracking
  - Horizontal timeline visualization with outcome color coding
  - Decision chain tracking (predecessors and successors)
  - Scope filtering (file, room, palace)

- **Scope Explorer**: Knowledge inheritance visualization
  - 4-level scope hierarchy: file → room → palace → corridor
  - Visual inheritance chain with record counts

### Dashboard

- New Insights sub-pages: Context Preview, Decision Timeline, Postmortems, Scope Explorer
- SPA routing support for client-side navigation
- WebSocket support for real-time updates

### Bug Fixes

- Fixed postmortem time.Time scanning error when retrieving records from SQLite
- Fixed SPA routing - dashboard now properly serves Angular routes

### Other

- Updated changelogs for v0.1.0-alpha release
- Comprehensive test coverage for all new features

apps/docs/content/getting-started/index.mdx, after:

# Introduction

Mind Palace is a deterministic context system for codebases. Unlike RAG or embedding-based approaches, Mind Palace provides **schema-validated, verifiable context** that both humans and AI agents can trust.

## Installation

### macOS / Linux

```sh
# Download the latest release
curl -L https://github.com/koksalmehmet/mind-palace/releases/latest/download/palace-darwin-arm64 -o palace

# Make it executable
chmod +x palace

# Move to your PATH
sudo mv palace /usr/local/bin/
```

### Windows

Download from the [releases page](https://github.com/koksalmehmet/mind-palace/releases) and add to your PATH.

### Verify Installation

```sh
palace version
```

## Quick Start

### 1. Initialize Your Project

```sh
cd your-project
palace init
```

This creates the `.palace/` directory with:
- `palace.jsonc` - Project configuration
- `rooms/` - Room definitions
- `playbooks/` - Workflow templates

### 2. Build the Index

```sh
palace scan
```

This creates a SQLite database with full-text search (FTS5) containing:
- File metadata and hashes
- Symbols (functions, types, classes)
- Call relationships

### 3. Query Your Codebase

```sh
palace query "where is authentication handled"
```

Results are ranked using BM25 with entry-point boosting.

### 4. Generate Context for AI Agents

```sh
palace context "fix the login bug"
```

This creates a context pack with relevant files, rooms, and metadata.

## What's Next

- [Concepts](/getting-started/concepts) - Learn the core terminology
- [Workflows](/getting-started/workflows) - Day-to-day usage patterns
- [CLI Reference](/reference/cli) - All available commands
